# CS-305-Software-Security
<p>The client, Artemis Financial, is a consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for their customers. The financial plans include sensitive information including savings, retirement, investments, and insurance that need to be secured and protected. In developing this custom software, they also want to use the most current and effective software security to protect the organization from external threats. Secure communications are crucial to the success of the software and the company. Artemis Financial has a RESTful web application programming interface (API). No information was given that Artemis Financial would need to make international transactions but since Global Rain specializes in this aspect and Artemis Financial deals with financial transactions, it would be safe to assume that, although adding additional risks, international transactions would need to be included in the development. Although Artemis Financial is a financial consulting company and not a financial institution, due to the nature of the data being handled it might be necessary to explore the implementation of HIPAA, GLBA, HSA, FISMA, etc. regulations.  Some external threats that need to be assessed would include web application attacks, DDoS attacks, backdoor attacks, injection attacks, etc. Modernization requirements will need to be considered to address the added security risks of open-source libraries and ever-evolving technologies like blockchain and IoT that might pose future risks.</p>

<p>Since Artemis Financial exchanges sensitive information including savings, retirement, investments, and insurance the following areas of security would need to be addressed: <br>
Input Validation – to ensure only properly formed data is entering the workflow in an information system.<br>
API – to securely allow the capabilities of one computer program to be used by another.<br>
Cryptography – to ensure that what is received is genuine, from the intended sender and data has not been tampered with during transmission.<br>
Client/Server – to allow data transmission and protect the data.<br>
Code Error – to diagnose and repair technical problems.<br>
Code Quality – to prevent technical debt and security issues.<br>
Encapsulation – to protect sensitive data and reduce unintentional errors.<br>
To increase security layers we added RestAPI, encryption algorithm, static testing, manual code review, refactored code, checksum verification, utilized certificate authorities (CAs), and updated dependency checks.
Performing a manual review was very helpful as a developer in identifying some of the security risks.<br>
</p>
<p>Suggesting an appropriate encrytption algorithm to deploy against the security vulnerabilites. The best encryption algorithm for financial businesses depends on a variety of factors, like the security level required, the amount of data being encrypted, and the regulatory requirements of the industry, so to develop our security plan we would need to consider the threats that our application could potentially face and then work to address those issues. Some external threats that need to be assessed would include web application attacks, third-party services, DDoS attacks, backdoor attacks, injection attacks, phishing, spoofing, ransomware, etc. Modernization requirements will need to be considered to address the added security risks of open-source libraries and ever-evolving technologies like blockchain and IoT that might pose future risks. Since governments worldwide consider cryptographic algorithms as covert technology, care will need to be taken to address current government regulations for cyber security.
Our recommendation for Artemis Financial is, Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), a symmetric-key algorithm that is widely used for encrypting data in a variety of industries, including finance. It’s a fast and efficient high-security encryption algorithm that is currently one of the most secure available and a trusted standard used by the United States government. It uses a block size of 128 bits, but also supports 192 and 256 bits for even greater security. RSA is a public-key algorithm, is also often used in financial transactions that require strong authentication and data integrity. In cases where an organization is still using older systems, Triple Data Encryption Standard (3DES), a symmetric-key algorithm could be used to provide a high level of security. SHA-256 is the most secure hashing algorithm (scrambling of data beyond recognition) that is irreversible and trusted by the U.S. government. Although SHA-512 may offer a lesser chance of collision, it requires a 640 bytes lookup table compared to SHA-256’s 256 bytes lookup table which may save on storage costs. If that is not an issue the client could move to the SHA-512 algorithm.
<br>
Cipher hash functions and bit levels play an important role in the security of encrypted data. Hash functions take input data of any size and produce a fixed-size output (hash value) to verify the data has not been tampered with. Bit levels are the number of bits used to represent data in an encryption algorithm. The higher the number of bits, the more secure the encryption because it increases the complexity of the encryption and makes it harder for an attacker to break it. Java offers a SecureRandom class that will return a strong randomly generated number to use for securing your data. Symmetric cryptography uses a single secret key to encrypt and decrypt the data and non-symmetric cryptography uses one secret key and one public key. 
<p>
Regular software updates, authentication and authorization, secure coding practices and error handling.
Applying industry standard best practices for secure coding is crucial for a company's overall wellbeing as it helps protect against cyber-attacks and data breaches, which can result in loss of data, damage to the company's reputation, and financial losses. Especially in the financial industry, specific regulations and standards are necessary for conducting business.
</p>


